Add usage documentation for new Kubernetes Secrets Engine (#15527)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/secrets/kubernetes.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Kubernetes - Secrets Engines
description: >-
  The Kubernetes secrets engine for Vault generates Kubernetes service account
  tokens, service accounts, role bindings, and roles dynamically.
---

# Kubernetes Secrets Engine

The Kubernetes Secrets Engine for Vault generates Kubernetes service account tokens, and
optionally service accounts, role bindings, and roles. The created service account tokens are
time-based and are automatically revoked when the Vault lease expires.

Vault will create a service account token for each lease that provides appropriate access to the
defined service account. The service account token is returned to the caller.

To learn more about service accounts in Kubernetes, visit the
[Kubernetes service account](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/)
and [Kubernetes RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/)
documentation.

> 

Author: :+1:

management tool.

1. Internally, Vault will connect to Kubernetes using its own service account.
   If using the [standard Helm chart](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-helm), this service account
   is created automatically by default and named after the Helm release (often `vault`, but this can be
   configured via the Helm value `server.serviceAccount.name`).

   It's necessary to ensure that the service account Vault uses will have permissions to manage
   service account tokens, and optionally manage service accounts, roles, and role bindings. This
   is usually done with a Kuberentes role or cluster role attached to the Vault service account
   with a role binding or cluster role binding, respectively.

   For example, a minimal cluster role to create service account tokens is:
   ```yaml
   apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
   kind: ClusterRole
   metadata:
     name: k8s-minimal-secrets-abilities
   rules:
   - apiGroups:
     - ""
     resources:
     - serviceaccounts/token
     verbs:
     - create
   ```

   Similarly, you can create a more permissive cluster role with full permissions to manage tokens,

>    service accounts, bindings, and roles:

Author: Tested. It seems to work well, so I'll swap it in.

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
   kind: ClusterRole
   metadata:
     name: k8s-full-secrets-abilities
   rules:
   - apiGroups:
     - ""
     resources:
     - serviceaccounts/token
     verbs:
     - create
   - apiGroups: [""]
     resources:
     - serviceaccounts
     verbs:
     - create
     - delete
   - apiGroups:
     - rbac.authorization.k8s.io
     resources:
     - rolebindings
     - roles
     - clusterrolebindings
     - clusterroles
     verbs:
     - create
     - delete
   ```

>    You create this role in Kubernetes (e.g., with `kubectl apply -f`).
>    Then, you will need to create a role binding to bind the role to Vault's service account to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Create this role in Kubernetes (e.g., with `kubectl apply -f`).
   Next, create a role binding to bind the role to Vault's service account and
```

   grant Vault permission to manage tokens.

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
   kind: ClusterRoleBinding
   metadata:
     name: vault-token-creator-binding
   roleRef:
     apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
     kind: ClusterRole
     name: k8s-minimal-secrets-abilities
   subjects:
   - kind: ServiceAccount
     name: vault
     namespace: vault
   ```

   For more information on Kubernetes roles, service accounts, bindings, and tokens, visit the
   [Kubernetes RBAC documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

2. If Vault will not be automatically managing roles or service accounts (see
   [Automatically Managing Roles and Service Accounts](#automatically-managing-roles-and-service-accounts)),

>    then we will need to set up a service account that Vault will issue tokens for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   then you will need to set up a service account that Vault will issue tokens for.
```

   ```

   Here is a simple set up of a service account, role, and role binding in the Kubernetes `test`
   namespace with basic permissions we will use for this document:
   ```yaml
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: ServiceAccount
   metadata:
     name: test-service-account-with-generated-token
     namespace: test
   ---
   apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
   kind: Role
   metadata:
     name: test-role-list-pods
     namespace: test
   rules:
   - apiGroups: [""]
     resources: ["pods"]
     verbs: ["list"]
   ---
   apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
   kind: RoleBinding
   metadata:
     name: test-role-abilities
     namespace: test
   roleRef:
     apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
     kind: Role
     name: test-role-list-pods
   subjects:
   - kind: ServiceAccount
     name: test-service-account-with-generated-token
     namespace: test
   ```

   We can create these objects with `kubectl apply -f`.

3. Enable the Kubernetes Secrets Engine:

   ```shell-session
   $ vault secrets enable kubernetes
   Success! Enabled the kubernetes Secrets Engine at: kubernetes/
   ```

   By default, the secrets engine will mount at the same name as the engine, i.e.,

>    `kubernetes/` here. This can be changed by passing the `-path` argument when enabling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `kubernetes/` here. Use the `-path` flag to change this.
```

4. Configure the mount point. An empty config is allowed.

   ```shell-session
   $ vault write -f kubernetes/config
   ```

   Configuration options are available as specified in the
   [API docs](/api-docs/secret/kubernetes).

5. We can now configure Kubernetes Secrets Engine to create a Vault role (**not** the same as a
   Kubernetes role) that can generate service account tokens for the given service account:

   ```shell-session
   $ vault write kubernetes/roles/my-role \
       allowed_kubernetes_namespaces="*" \
       service_account_name="test-service-account-with-generated-token" \
       token_default_ttl="10m"
   ```

## Generating Credentials

After a user has authenticated to Vault and has sufficient permissions, a read request to the
`creds` endpoint for the Vault role will generate and return a new service account token.

```shell-session

> $ vault write kubernetes/creds/my-role \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ vault read kubernetes/creds/my-role \
```

Author: I think we were having some discussion about this, and agreed that `write` is better?

Reviewer: Yep 👍

    kubernetes_namespace=test

Key                        Value
–--                        -----
lease_id                   kubernetes/creds/my-role/31d771a6-...
lease_duration             10m0s
lease_renwable             false
service_account_name       test-service-account-with-generated-token
service_account_namespace  test
service_account_token      eyJHbGci0iJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6ImlrUEE...
```

We can use the service account token above (`eyJHbG...`) with any Kubernetes API request that
its service account is authorized for (through role bindings).

```shell-session

> $ curl -sk $(kubectl config view -o 'jsonpath={.clusters[0].cluster.server}')/api/v1/namespaces/test/pods \

Reviewer: Is it possible to avoid the hardcoded 0? It would be easy to miss for people who have multiple clusters set up in their kubeconfig

Author: I'm honestly not sure. This seemed to be the most straightforward way I could come up with to tell me "what is the current kubernetes API host to use".

Reviewer: It's maybe too complex/ugly to actually use, and I couldn't find a way with just jsonpath, but I couldn't resist having a stab at this :)

```bash
kubectl config view -o json | jq -r '."current-context" as $current | .clusters[] | select(.name == $current).cluster.server'
```

Reviewer: In theory, `-o jsonpath='{.clusters[?(@.name == $.current-context)]}'` should work as well, but for some reason, `kubectl` doesn't seem to support anchoring back to the root object with `$` inside a filter expression.

Reviewer 2: Something like this may also work. The minify option removes everything that's not in the currently selected context IIRC: 
```
kubectl config view --minify -o jsonpath='{.clusters[].cluster.server}'
```

Reviewer: Oh nice! That's way better

Author: Cool. I'll do `--minify`.

Just for fun, there's also:

```sh
curl -sk $(kubectl config view -o jsonpath="{.clusters[?(@.name == \"$(kubectl config current-context)\")].cluster.server}")/api/v1/namespaces/test/pods --header "Authorization: Bearer ..."
```

    --header "Authorization: Bearer eyJHbGci0iJSUzI1Ni..."
{
  "kind": "PodList",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "metadata": {
    "resourceVersion": "1624"
  },
  "items": []
}
```

When the lease expires, we can verify that the token has been revoked.
```shell-session
$ curl -sk $(kubectl config view -o 'jsonpath={.clusters[0].cluster.server}')/api/v1/namespaces/test/pods \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer eyJHbGci0iJSUzI1Ni..."
{
  "kind": "Status",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "metadata": {},
  "status": "Failure",
  "message": "Unauthorized",
  "reason": "Unauthorized",
  "code": 401
}
```

## TTL

Kubernetes service account tokens have a time-to-live (TTL). When a token expires it is
automatically revoked.

You can set a default (`token_defaul_ttl`) and a maximum TTL (`token_max_ttl`) when
creating or tuning the Vault role.

```shell-session
$ vault write kubernetes/roles/my-role \
    allowed_kubernetes_namespaces="*" \
    service_account_name="new-service-account-with-generated-token" \
    token_default_ttl="10m" \
    token_max_ttl="2h"
```

> You can also set a TTL (`ttl`) when generate the token from the credentials endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also set a TTL (`ttl`) when you generate the token from the credentials endpoint.
```

The TTL of the token will be given the default if not specified (and cannot exceed the
maximum TTL of the role, if present).

```shell-session
$ vault write kubernetes/creds/my-role \
    kubernetes_namespace=test \
    ttl=20m

Key                        Value
–--                        -----
lease_id                   kubernetes/creds/my-role/31d771a6-...
lease_duration             20m0s
lease_renwable             false
service_account_name       default
service_account_namespace  test
service_account_token      eyJHbGci0iJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6ImlrUEE...
```

> You can verify the token's TTL by decoding the JWT token and extracting the `exp` field.
> 
> ```shell-session
> $ echo 'eyJhbGc...' | cut -d'.' -f2 | base64 -d  | jq -r '.exp|todateiso8601'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can verify the token's TTL by decoding the JWT token and extracting the `iat`
(issued at) and `exp` (expiration time) claims.

```shell-session
$ echo 'eyJhbGc...' | cut -d'.' -f2 | base64 -d  | jq -r '.iat,.exp|todate'
```

Feel free to take or leave each of the edits. I was reading up on the documentation and discovered `todate` is an alias of `todateiso8601` ([link](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/manual/v1.5/#:~:text=Examples-,Dates,-jq%20provides%20some)).

2022-05-20T10:18:05Z
```

## Automatically Managing Roles and Service Accounts

> When configuring the Vault role, we can pass in parameters to specify that we want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When configuring the Vault role, you can pass in parameters to specify that you want to
```

automatically generate the Kubernetes service account and role binding,
and optionally generate the Kubernetes role itself.

> If we want to configure the Vault role to use a pre-existing Kubernetes role, but generate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to configure the Vault role to use a pre-existing Kubernetes role, but generate
```

> the service account and role binding automatically, we can set the `kubernetes_role_name`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the service account and role binding automatically, you can set the `kubernetes_role_name`
```

parameter.

```shell-session
$ vault write kubernetes/roles/auto-managed-sa-role \
    allowed_kubernetes_namespaces="test" \
    kubernetes_role_name="test-role-list-pods"
```

~> **Note**: Vault's service account will also need access to the resources it is granting

> access to. This can be done for the examples above with `kubectl -n test create rolebinding --role test-role-list-pods --serviceaccount=vault:vault vault-test-role-abilities`.

Reviewer: Oh this is a nice call out, I hadn't read this when I left the comment above about escalating privileges.

Author: I'll see if I can clarify it and link to the information about escalation of privileges.

   subjects:
   - kind: ServiceAccount
     name: test-service-account-with-generated-token
     namespace: test
   ```

   You can create these objects with `kubectl apply -f`.

1. Enable the Kubernetes Secrets Engine:

   ```shell-session
   $ vault secrets enable kubernetes
   Success! Enabled the kubernetes Secrets Engine at: kubernetes/
   ```

   By default, the secrets engine will mount at the same name as the engine, i.e.,
   `kubernetes/` here. This can be changed by passing the `-path` argument when enabling.

1. Configure the mount point. An empty config is allowed.

   ```shell-session
   $ vault write -f kubernetes/config
   ```

   Configuration options are available as specified in the
   [API docs](/api-docs/secret/kubernetes).

1. You can now configure Kubernetes Secrets Engine to create a Vault role (**not** the same as a
   Kubernetes role) that can generate service account tokens for the given service account:

   ```shell-session
   $ vault write kubernetes/roles/my-role \
       allowed_kubernetes_namespaces="*" \
       service_account_name="test-service-account-with-generated-token" \
       token_default_ttl="10m"
   ```

## Generating Credentials

> After a user has authenticated to Vault and has sufficient permissions, a read request to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After a user has authenticated to Vault and has sufficient permissions, a write to the
```

service_account_name       test-service-account-with-generated-token
service_account_namespace  test
service_account_token      eyJHbGci0iJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6ImlrUEE...
```

You can use the service account token above (`eyJHbG...`) with any Kubernetes API request that
its service account is authorized for (through role bindings).

```shell-session
$ curl -sk $(kubectl config view -o 'jsonpath={.clusters[0].cluster.server}')/api/v1/namespaces/test/pods \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer eyJHbGci0iJSUzI1Ni..."
{
  "kind": "PodList",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "metadata": {
    "resourceVersion": "1624"
  },
  "items": []
}
```

When the lease expires, you can verify that the token has been revoked.
```shell-session
$ curl -sk $(kubectl config view -o 'jsonpath={.clusters[0].cluster.server}')/api/v1/namespaces/test/pods \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer eyJHbGci0iJSUzI1Ni..."
{
  "kind": "Status",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "metadata": {},
  "status": "Failure",
  "message": "Unauthorized",
  "reason": "Unauthorized",
  "code": 401
}
```

## TTL

Kubernetes service account tokens have a time-to-live (TTL). When a token expires it is
automatically revoked.

> You can set a default (`token_defaul_ttl`) and a maximum TTL (`token_max_ttl`) when

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can set a default (`token_default_ttl`) and a maximum TTL (`token_max_ttl`) when
```

creating or tuning the Vault role.

```shell-session
$ vault write kubernetes/roles/my-role \
    allowed_kubernetes_namespaces="*" \
    service_account_name="new-service-account-with-generated-token" \
    token_default_ttl="10m" \
    token_max_ttl="2h"
```

You can also set a TTL (`ttl`) when you generate the token from the credentials endpoint.
The TTL of the token will be given the default if not specified (and cannot exceed the
maximum TTL of the role, if present).

```shell-session
$ vault write kubernetes/creds/my-role \
    kubernetes_namespace=test \
    ttl=20m

Key                        Value
–--                        -----
lease_id                   kubernetes/creds/my-role/31d771a6-...
lease_duration             20m0s
lease_renwable             false

> service_account_name       default

Reviewer 2: Wouldn't this be the service_account_name?

```suggestion
service_account_name       new-service-account-with-generated-token
```
